

Aca Аца  
 and  diminutive of Aleksandar.
Aco Ацо  
 and  diminutive of Aleksandar.
Adam Адам m English, French, German, Polish, Dutch, Swedish, Norwegian, , Czech, Slovak, Russian, , , , , Romanian, Catalan, Greek, Hebrew, Arabic, Georgian, Malay, Indonesian, Dhivehi, Biblical, Biblical Latin, Biblical Greek, Biblical Hebrew
This is the Hebrew word for "man". It could be ultimately derived from Hebrew אדם (ʾaḏam) meaning "to be red", referring to the ruddy colour of human skin, or from Akkadian adamu meaning "to make".... [more]
Aleksa Алекса m 
 form of Alexius, as well as a short form of Aleksandar.
Aleksandar Александар m Bulgarian, , , , Bosnian
Form of Alexander in several languages.
Aljoša Аљоша m & f Slovene, , 
Slovene,  form of Alyosha. In Slovene it can also be a feminine name.
Anđelko Анђелко  
 .
Andrej Андреј m Slovene, Czech, Slovak, , , 
Form of Andrew in several languages.
Andreja 2 Андреја m 
 form of Andrew.
Andrija Андрија  
 form of Andrew.
Anto Анто  
 form of Antonius (see Anthony).
Antonije Антоније m 
 form of Antonius (see Anthony).
Atanasije Атанасије m 
 form of Athanasius.
Blagoje Благоје m 
 form of Blagoy.
Boban Бобан  
Diminutive of Bogdan or Slobodan.
Bogdan Богдан m Polish, Russian, Slovene, Bulgarian, , , , Romanian
Means "given by God" from the Slavic elements bogŭ "god" and danŭ "given". This pre-Christian name was later used as a translation of Theodotus.
Bojan Бојан  , Slovene, 
Derived from Old Slavic bojĭ meaning "battle". This was the name of a 9th-century Bulgarian saint and martyr, also called Enravota, a son of the Bulgarian khan Omurtag.
Boris Борис m Bulgarian, Russian, Slovene, , , , Czech, Slovak, Georgian, German, French
From a Bulgar Turkic name, also recorded as Bogoris, perhaps meaning "short" or "wolf" or "snow leopard". It was borne by the 9th-century Boris I of Bulgaria, who converted his realm to Christianity and is thus regarded as a saint in the Orthodox Church. To the north in Kievan Rus it was the name of another saint, a son of Vladimir the Great who was murdered with his brother Gleb in the 11th century. His mother may have been Bulgarian.... [more]
Borislav Борислав m Bulgarian, , , Slovene, , Russian
Derived from the Slavic element borti "battle" combined with slava "glory".
Borivoj Боривој  
 and  form of Bořivoj.
Borivoje Боривоје m 
 form of Bořivoj.
Borko Борко  
Diminutive of Borislav, Borivoje, and other names starting with Bor. It is sometimes used independently.
Boro Боро  
Diminutive of Borislav, Boris, and other names starting with Bor.
Boško Бошко  , Slovene
Originally a diminutive of Božidar.
Boža Божа m 
Diminutive of Božidar.
Božidar Божидар  , Slovene, , Sorbian
Means "divine gift" from the Slavic elements božĭjĭ "divine" and darŭ "gift". This is a Slavic translation of Theodore.
Božo Божо  , Slovene
Diminutive of Božidar, now often used independently.
Branimir Бранимир  , Bulgarian, Slovene
Derived from the Slavic element borna "protection" combined with mirŭ "peace, world".
Branislav Бранислав  Slovak, Czech, Slovene, , 
Form of Bronisław in several languages.
Branko Бранко  , Slovene, 
Originally a diminutive of names beginning with the Slavic element borna (South Slavic brana) meaning "protection".
Bratislav Братислав m 
Derived from the Slavic elements bratŭ "brother" and slava "glory".
Čedomir Чедомир  , 
Derived from Slavic čędo "child" and mirŭ "peace, world".
Cvetko Цветко m Slovene, , , 
Derived from South Slavic cvet meaning "blossom, flower".
Dalibor Далибор m Czech, Slovak, , , Slovene
Derived from the Slavic elements dalĭ "distance" and borti "to fight".
Damir 1 Дамир  , Slovene
Possibly derived from the Slavic elements danŭ "given" and mirŭ "peace, world". Otherwise, it might be of Turkic or Russian origin (see Damir 2). It was popularized by a character from Marija Jurić Zagorka's novel Gordana (1935).
Damjan Дамјан m Slovene, , , 
Slovene, ,  and  form of Damian.
Danijel Данијел m Slovene, , 
Form of Daniel in several languages.
Danilo Данило m Italian, Portuguese, Spanish, Slovene, , 
Form of Daniel in various languages.
Danko Данко  
Diminutive of Gordan, Danilo or Danijel.
Darko Дарко  , Slovene, 
From the Slavic element darŭ meaning "gift", originally a diminutive of names containing that element.
David Давид m English, Hebrew, French, Scottish, Welsh, Spanish, Portuguese, Catalan, German, Swedish, Norwegian, , Dutch, Czech, Slovene, Russian, , , , Romanian, Biblical, Biblical Latin
From the Hebrew name דָּוִד (Dawiḏ), which was derived from דּוֹד (doḏ) meaning "beloved" or "uncle". David was the second and greatest of the kings of Israel, ruling in the 10th century BC. Several stories about him are told in the Old Testament, including his defeat of Goliath, a giant Philistine. According to the New Testament, Jesus was descended from him.... [more]
Davor Давор  , Slovene
Meaning uncertain, possibly from an old Slavic exclamation expressing joy or sorrow. This was the name of a supposed Slavic war god. His name was the basis for the word davorije, a type of patriotic war song popular in the 19th century.
Dejan Дејан  , Slovene, 
From one of the related Slavic roots dějati "to do" or dějanĭje "deed, action".
Desimir Десимир m 
Derived from Slavic elements, possibly desiti "to find, to encounter" or desętĭ "ten", combined with mirŭ "peace, world".
Dimitrije Димитрије m 
 form of Demetrius.
Djordje Ђорђе m 
Alternate transcription of  Ђорђе (see Đorđe).
Djuradj Ђурађ m 
Alternate transcription of  Ђурађ (see Đurađ).
Djuro Ђуро m 
Alternate transcription of  Ђуро (see Đuro).
Dmitar Дмитар  
 form of Demetrius.
Dobrilo Добрило m  (Rare)
Masculine form of Dobrila.
Dobroslav Доброслав m Czech, , , Bulgarian
Derived from the Slavic elements dobrŭ "good" and slava "glory".
Đorđe Ђорђе m 
 form of George.
Dositej Доситеј m  (Archaic)
 form of Dositheos.
Dragan Драган  , Slovene, , Bulgarian
Derived from the Slavic element dorgŭ (South Slavic drag) meaning "precious".
Dragiša Драгиша m 
Originally a diminutive of names beginning with the Slavic element dorgŭ (South Slavic drag) meaning "precious".
Drago Драго  , Slovene, Bulgarian
Originally a short form of names beginning with the Slavic element dorgŭ (South Slavic drag) meaning "precious".
Dragoljub Драгољуб  
From the Slavic elements dorgŭ (South Slavic drag) meaning "precious" and ľuby meaning "love". This is also the  and  word for the flowering plant nasturtium (species Tropaeolum majus).
Dragomir Драгомир  , Bulgarian, Slovene, Romanian
Derived from the Slavic element dorgŭ (South Slavic drag) meaning "precious" combined with mirŭ meaning "peace, world".
Dragoslav Драгослав  , Slovene
Derived from the Slavic elements dorgŭ (South Slavic drag) meaning "precious" and slava meaning "glory".
Dragutin Драгутин  , Slovene
Derived from the Slavic element dorgŭ (South Slavic drag) meaning "precious".
Draško Драшко  
Originally a diminutive of names containing the Slavic element dorgŭ (South Slavic drag) meaning "precious".
Draža Дража m 
Diminutive of names beginning with the Slavic element dorgŭ (South Slavic drag) meaning "precious".
Dražen Дражен  
Derived from the Slavic element dorgŭ (South Slavic drag) meaning "precious", originally a diminutive of names beginning with that element.
Đurađ Ђурађ m 
 form of George.
Đuro Ђуро  
 form of George.
Dušan Душан m Slovak, Czech, , , Slovene, 
Derived from Slavic duša meaning "soul, spirit".
Duško Душко  , 
Variant of Dušan.
Emil Емил m Swedish, Norwegian, , German, Romanian, Bulgarian, Czech, Slovak, Polish, Russian, Slovene, , , , Hungarian, Icelandic, English
From the Roman family name Aemilius, which was derived from Latin aemulus meaning "rival".
Filip Филип m Swedish, Norwegian, , Dutch, Czech, Slovak, Bulgarian, Polish, , , Slovene, , Romanian, Finnish
Form of Philip in various languages.
Franjo Фрањо  
 form of Francis.
Gavrilo Гаврило m 
 form of Gabriel.
Gojko 
Goran 
Derived from South Slavic gora meaning "mountain". It was popularized by the  poet Ivan Goran Kovačić (1913-1943), who got his middle name because of the mountain town where he was born.
Gordan Гордан  
Derived from South Slavic gord meaning "proud". This name and the feminine form Gordana were popularized by the publication of  author Marija Jurić Zagorka's novel Gordana (1935).
Hranislav Хранислав m 
Derived from the Slavic element xorniti (Serbo- hraniti) meaning "to feed, to protect" combined with slava meaning "glory".
Hristofor Христофор m Bulgarian, ,  (Rare)
Bulgarian,  and  form of Christopher.
Igor Игор m Russian, Polish, Slovene, , , , Slovak, Czech, Italian, Portuguese, Basque
Russian form of the Old Norse name Yngvarr (see Ingvar). The Varangians brought it with them when they began settling in Eastern Europe in the 9th century. It was borne by two grand princes of Kyiv, notably Igor I the son of Rurik and the husband of Saint Olga. Other famous bearers include Igor Stravinsky (1882-1971), a Russian composer known for The Rite of Spring, and Igor Sikorsky (1889-1972), the Russian-American designer of the first successful helicopter.
Ilija Илија  , , Bulgarian
,  and  form of Elijah, and an alternate transcription of Bulgarian Илия (see Iliya).
Isaija Исаија  
 and  form of Isaiah.
Ivan Иван m Russian, Bulgarian, , Belarusian, , , , Czech, Slovak, Slovene, English, Italian, Portuguese, Romanian, , Swedish, Norwegian, Estonian
Newer form of the Old Church Slavic name Іѡаннъ (Ioannŭ), which was derived from Greek Ioannes (see John). This was the name of six Russian rulers, including the 15th-century Ivan III the Great and 16th-century Ivan IV the Terrible, the first tsar of Russia. It was also borne by nine emperors of Bulgaria. Other notable bearers include the Russian author Ivan Turgenev (1818-1883), who wrote Fathers and Sons, and the Russian physiologist Ivan Pavlov (1849-1936), who is best known for his discovery of the conditioned reflex.
Ivica Ивица  
Diminutive of Ivan.
Ivo 2 Иво m Bulgarian, , , Slovene, 
Diminutive of Ivan.
Jadran Јадран  , Slovene
,  and Slovene form of Adrian.
Jadranko Јадранко  , Slovene
,  and Slovene form of Adrian.
Jakov Јаков  , 
,  and  form of Jacob (or James).
Jakša Јакша  
Diminutive of Jakov.
Janko Јанко m Slovene, , , Slovak
Diminutive of Janez or Ján.
Javor Јавор  
Means "maple tree" in South Slavic.
Jevrem Јеврем m 
 form of Ephraim.
Joakim Јоаким m Swedish, Norwegian, , Finnish, , 
Scandinavian,  and  form of Joachim.
Jordan Јордан m & f English, French, , 
From the name of the river that flows between the countries of Jordan and Israel. The river's name in Hebrew is יַרְדֵן (Yarḏen), and it is derived from יָרַד (yaraḏ) meaning "descend, flow down". In the New Testament John the Baptist baptizes Jesus Christ in its waters, and it was adopted as a personal name in Europe after crusaders brought water back from the river to baptize their children. There may have been some influence from the Latin name Jordanes, notably borne by a 6th-century Gothic historian.... [more]
Josif Јосиф  
 and  form of Joseph.
Jovan Јован  
 and  form of John.
Jovica Јовица  
Diminutive of Jovan.
Julijan Јулијан m Slovene, , 
Slovenian,  form of Iulianus (see Julian).
Konstantin Константин m Russian, , Bulgarian, , German, Estonian, Finnish, Hungarian
Form of Constantine in several languages.
Kosta Коста m Bulgarian, , 
Bulgarian,  and  diminutive of Konstantin.
Kristijan Кристијан  , Slovene, 
, , Slovene and  form of Christian.
Krsto Крсто  
From Serbo- крст (krst) meaning "cross" (a word that is more common in ). It could also be a short form of Kristijan or Kristofor.
Kuzman Кузман m Bulgarian, , 
Bulgarian,  and  form of Cosmas.
Ladislav Ладислав m Czech, Slovak, Slovene, , 
Czech, Slovak, Slovene,  variant of Vladislav.
Lazar Лазар m Russian, Bulgarian, , , 
Russian, Bulgarian, ,  and  form of Lazarus. This name was borne by a 14th-century  ruler who was killed at the Battle of Kosovo.
Ljuba Љуба m & f , , Slovene, , Czech
From the Slavic element ľuby meaning "love", or a short form of names beginning with that element. It is typically masculine in Serbia and feminine elsewhere.
Ljuban Љубан  
Derived from the Slavic element ľuby meaning "love".
Ljubiša Љубиша m 
From the Slavic element ľuby meaning "love" combined with a diminutive suffix.
Ljubo Љубо  , Slovene
Diminutive of Ljubomir and other names beginning with the Slavic element ľuby meaning "love". It is often used independently.
Ljubomir Љубомир  , , Slovene
,  and  form of Lubomír.
Luka Лука  , Slovene, , Russian, Georgian, Old Church Slavic
Form of Lucas (see Luke) in several languages.
Marin Марин m Romanian, , , Bulgarian, French
Romanian, , , Bulgarian and French form of Marinus.
Marinko Маринко  
 diminutive of Marin.
Marjan 2 Марјан m Slovene, , , 
Slovene, ,  and  form of Marianus.
Marko Марко  , , Slovene, Bulgarian, , Finnish, Estonian, Basque
Form of Mark in several languages.
Martin Мартин m English, French, German, Swedish, Norwegian, , Estonian, Russian, Romanian, Czech, Slovak, Slovene, , , Hungarian, Bulgarian, , Finnish
From the Roman name Martinus, which was derived from Martis, the genitive case of the name of the Roman god Mars. Saint Martin of Tours was a 4th-century bishop who is the patron saint of France. According to legend, he came across a cold beggar in the middle of winter so he ripped his cloak in two and gave half of it to the beggar. He was a favourite saint during the Middle Ages, and his name has become common throughout the Christian world.... [more]
Mateja 2 Матеја m 
 variant of Matija.
Matija Матија m & f Slovene, , 
Slovene,  form of Matthias, used to refer to the apostle chosen to replace Judas Iscariot. It is occasionally used as a feminine name.
Mihailo Михаило m 
 form of Michael.
Mihajlo Михајло m 
 form of Michael.
Mijo Мијо  
Diminutive of Milan or Mihovil.
Milan Милан m Czech, Slovak, , , Slovene, , Dutch (Modern), German (Modern), French (Modern)
From the Slavic element milŭ meaning "gracious, dear", originally a short form of names that began with that element. It was originally used in Czech, Slovak, and the South Slavic languages, though it has recently become popular elsewhere in Europe.... [more]
Mile Миле  , 
Diminutive of Miodrag, Milan, and other names containing the Slavic element milŭ meaning "gracious, dear". It is often used independently.
Milenko Миленко  , Slovene
From the Slavic element milŭ meaning "gracious, dear", originally a diminutive of names containing that element.
Milivoj Миливој  , Slovene
Derived from the Slavic elements milŭ "gracious" and vojĭ "soldier".
Miloje Милоје m 
From the Slavic element milŭ meaning "gracious, dear", originally a diminutive of names beginning with that element.
Milojica Милојица m 
Diminutive of Miloje.
Milojko Милојко m 
Variant of Miloje.
Milomir Миломир m 
Derived from the Slavic elements milŭ "gracious, dear" and mirŭ "peace" or "world".
Milorad Милорад  , 
Derived from the Slavic elements milŭ "gracious, dear" and radŭ "happy, willing".
Miloš Милош m Czech, Slovak, , Slovene, , 
Originally a diminutive of names beginning with the Slavic element milŭ meaning "gracious, dear". This was the name of a 14th-century  hero who apparently killed the Ottoman sultan Murad I at the Battle of Kosovo.
Milovan Милован  
Derived from Slavic milovati meaning "to caress".
Miodrag Миодраг  
Derived from the element mio, a Serbo- form of the Slavic element milŭ meaning "dear", combined with dorgŭ meaning "precious".
Miomir Миомир m 
Derived from the element mio, a  form of the Slavic element milŭ meaning "dear", combined with mirŭ meaning "peace" or "world".
Mirko Мирко  , Slovene, , Italian
From the Slavic element mirŭ meaning "peace, world", originally a diminutive of names containing that element.
Miroslav Мирослав m Czech, Slovak, Russian, , , Slovene, Bulgarian, 
Derived from the Slavic elements mirŭ "peace, world" and slava "glory". This was the name of a 10th-century king of Croatia who was deposed by one of his nobles after ruling for four years.
Miša Миша m & f , Slovene
 diminutive of Mihailo, Miroslav and other names beginning with a similar sound. In Slovenia it is typically feminine.
Miško Мишко  
 and  diminutive of Mihailo, Mihael, Miroslav and other names beginning with a similar sound.
Mitar Митар m 
Short form of Dmitar.
Mladen Младен  , Slovene, Bulgarian, 
Derived from the South Slavic word mlad meaning "young", ultimately from Old Slavic *moldŭ.
Momir Момир m 
 form of Mojmír.
Nebojša Небојша  
Means "fearless" in  and , from the Old Slavic root nebojĭ.
Nedeljko Недељко  
Derived from  nedjelja and  недеља (nedelja) meaning "Sunday".
Nemanja Немања m 
Possibly from Slavic ne maniti meaning "not deceiving, not luring, not attracting". Another theory states that it means "without possessions", derived from Serbo- nemati meaning "have not". This was the name of a 12th-century  king, and the name of the dynasty he began.
Nenad Ненад  
Means "unexpected" in  and . In the  folk song Predrag and Nenad this is the name of Predrag's brother.
Neno Нено  
Diminutive of Nenad.
Neven Невен  , 
Masculine form of Nevena.
Nikica Никица  
 diminutive of Nikola 1.
Nikola 1 Никола  , Slovene, Bulgarian, , Czech, Basque
Form of Nicholas in several languages. Note, in Czech this is also a feminine name (see Nikola 2). A famous bearer was the -American inventor Nikola Tesla (1856-1943).
Ninoslav Нинослав  , Medieval Slavic
From a Slavic element, possibly nyně "now", combined with slava "glory". Matej Ninoslav was a 13th-century duke of Bosnia.
Novak Новак m 
From  нов (nov) meaning "new". A notable bearer is the  tennis player Novak Djokovic (1987-).
Obrad Обрад m 
Possibly derived from  obradovati meaning "to make happy".
Ognjan Огњан  
 variant form of Ognyan.
Ognjen Огњен  
 form of Ognyan.
Oliver Оливер m English, German, Swedish, Norwegian, , Finnish, Estonian, Catalan, , , , Czech, Slovak, Carolingian Cycle
From Old French Olivier, which was possibly derived from Latin oliva "olive tree". Alternatively there could be an underlying Germanic name, such as Old Norse Áleifr (see Olaf) or Frankish Alawar (see Álvaro), with the spelling altered by association with the Latin word. In the Middle Ages the name became well-known in Western Europe because of the French epic La Chanson de Roland, in which Olivier is a friend and advisor to the hero Roland.... [more]
Pavle Павле  , , Georgian
, ,  and Georgian form of Paul.
Peđa Пеђа m 
Diminutive of Predrag.
Pedja Пеђа m 
Alternate transcription of  Пеђа (see Peđa).
Pejo Пејо  
 diminutive of Petar.
Perica Перица  
 diminutive of Petar.
Pero Перо  , 
Diminutive of Petar.
Petar Петар  , Bulgarian, 
, , Bulgarian and  form of Peter.
Petko Петко m Bulgarian, , 
Derived from Bulgarian петък (petak),  петок (petok) or  петак (petak) meaning "Friday". This is a vernacular form of Paraskeve. It can also be a diminutive of Petar.
Plamen Пламен m Bulgarian, 
Means "flame, fire" in South Slavic.
Predrag Предраг  
Derived from the Slavic element dorgŭ meaning "precious" combined with a superlative prefix.
Prvoslav Првослав m 
Derived from the Slavic elements pĭrvŭ "first" and slava "glory, fame".
Rade Раде  
Short form of Milorad and other names containing the Slavic element radŭ meaning "happy, willing". It is often used independently.
Radivoj Радивој m 
Derived from the Slavic elements radŭ "happy, willing" and vojĭ "soldier".
Radivoje Радивоје m 
Variant of Radivoj.
Radmilo Радмило m 
 form of Radomil.
Radomir Радомир  Bulgarian
Derived from the Slavic element radŭ "happy, willing" and mirŭ "peace, world".
Radoš Радош m 
Derived from the Slavic element radŭ meaning "happy, willing", originally a diminutive of names beginning with that element.
Radoslav Радослав m Czech, Slovak, , , Slovene, Bulgarian, 
Form of Radosław in several languages.
Radovan Радован m Slovak, Czech, , , Slovene, 
Derived from Slavic radovati meaning "to make happy, to gladden".
Rajko Рајко  , Slovene
Derived from South Slavic raj meaning "paradise".
Ranko Ранко  
Derived from Slavic ranŭ meaning "early".
Ratislav Ратислав m  (Rare)
Derived from the Slavic elements ortĭ (Serbo- rat) meaning "war, battle" and slava meaning "glory".
Ratko Ратко  
Originally a diminutive of names beginning with the Slavic element radŭ meaning "happy, willing".
Ratomir Ратомир m 
Derived from the Slavic elements ortĭ (Serbo- rat) meaning "war, battle" and mirŭ meaning "peace, world".
Risto Ристо m Finnish, Estonian, , 
Finnish, Estonian,  and  short form of Christopher.
Saša Саша m & f , , Slovene
,  and Slovene diminutive of Aleksander or Aleksandra.
Sava Сава  Bulgarian, 
, Bulgarian and  form of Sabas.
Sergej Сергеј  Slovene, Czech, Slovak, Russian, Bulgarian
, Slovene, Czech and Slovak form of Sergey, as well as an alternate transcription of Russian/Bulgarian Сергей (see Sergey).
Silvester Силвестер m Slovak, Slovene, , German, English, Late Roman
From a Latin name meaning "wooded, wild", derived from silva "wood, forest". This was the name of three popes, including Saint Silvester I who supposedly baptized the first Christian Roman emperor, Constantine the Great. As an English name, Silvester (or Sylvester) has been in use since the Middle Ages, though it became less common after the Protestant Reformation.
Simeon Симеон m Biblical, Bulgarian, 
From Συμεών (Symeon), the Old Testament Greek form of the Hebrew name Shimʿon (see Simon 1). In the Old Testament this is the name of the second son of Jacob and Leah and the founder of one of the twelve tribes of Israel. In the New Testament the Greek rendering Σίμων (Simon) is more common, though Συμεών occurs belonging to a man who blessed the newborn Jesus. He is recognized as a saint in most Christian traditions.... [more]
Simo Симо m Finnish, 
Finnish and  form of Simon 1.
Siniša Синиша  
Derived from Serbo- sin meaning "son".
Slaven Славен  
Means "a Slav" in , referring to the European people who speak one of the Slavic languages (which include ). The word is derived from Old Slavic *slověninŭ.
Slavko Славко  , Slovene, , Bulgarian
Originally a diminutive of names containing the Slavic element slava meaning "glory".
Slavoljub Славољуб m 
Derived from the Slavic elements slava "glory" and ľuby "love".
Slavomir Славомир  
 and  form of Sławomir.
Slobodan Слободан  , 
From South Slavic sloboda meaning "freedom".
Spiridon Спиридон m Greek,  (Rare),  (Rare)
 and  form of Spyridon, as well as an alternate transcription of the Greek name.
Srećko Срећко  
 cognate of Srečko.
Stanimir Станимир m Bulgarian, 
Derived from the Slavic elements stati "stand, become" (in an inflected form) and mirŭ "peace, world".
Stanislav Станислав m Czech, Slovak, Russian, , Bulgarian, Slovene, , 
Derived from the Slavic element stati "stand, become" (inflected forms in stan-) combined with slava "glory". This name was borne by a few medieval saints (typically called by the Polish form Stanisław or Latinized form Stanislaus), including a bishop of Krakow who was martyred in the 11th century.
Stanko Станко m Slovene, , , Bulgarian
Originally a diminutive of Stanislav and other names derived from the Slavic element stati meaning "stand, become".
Stefan Стефан m German, Swedish, Norwegian, , Dutch, Polish, Bulgarian, , 
Form of Stephen used in several languages. Famous bearers include the  rulers Stefan Nemanja, Stefan Nemanjić, and Stefan Lazarević, who are all considered saints in the Orthodox Church.
Stevan Стеван m 
 form of Stephen.
Stevo Стево  , 
Diminutive of Stevan.
Stjepan Стјепан  
 form of Stephen.
Stojan Стојан  , , Slovene
, ,  and Slovene form of Stoyan.
Svetomir Светомир  Bulgarian (Rare)
Derived from the Slavic elements svętŭ "sacred, holy" and mirŭ "peace, world".
Tadija Тадија  
 form of Thaddeus.
Teodor Теодор m Romanian, Bulgarian, Slovak, Czech, Polish, , , Slovene, , Swedish, Norwegian
Form of Theodore used in various languages.
Tihomir Тихомир m Bulgarian, , , , Slovene
Derived from the Slavic elements tixŭ "quiet" and mirŭ "peace, world".
Todor Тодор m Bulgarian, , 
Bulgarian,  and  form of Theodore.
Toma 2 Тома m Romanian, , , Bulgarian, , Georgian
Form of Thomas used in several languages.
Tomislav Томислав  , Slovene, , Bulgarian
Probably derived from the Slavic element tomiti "to torment" combined with slava "glory". This was the name of the first king of Croatia (10th century).
Trajan 2 Трајан  
Means "enduring, permanent" in South Slavic. This also coincides with the  and  form of the Roman emperor's name Trajan 1, which may also factor into the name's usage.
Uros Урош m 
Alternate transcription of  Урош (see Uroš).
Uroš Урош  Slovene
 form of an old Hungarian name, possibly from úr meaning "man, lord" combined with a diminutive suffix. This was the name of five  kings.
Vanja Вања m & f , , Slovene, Swedish, Norwegian
,  and Slovene (masculine and feminine) form of Vanya. It is also used in Scandinavia, where it is primarily feminine.
Vartolomej Вартоломеј m  (Rare)
 form of Bartholomew.
Vasilije Василије m 
 form of Basil 1.
Vaso 1 Васо m Georgian, 
Diminutive of Vasil or Vasilije.
Vedran Ведран  
Means "clear, cheerful" in .
Velibor Велибор  
Derived from the Slavic elements velĭ "great" and borti "battle".
Velimir Велимир  
Derived from the Slavic elements velĭ "great" and mirŭ "peace, world".
Veljko Вељко  
Diminutive of Veselko.
Veselin Веселин m Bulgarian, , 
Derived from South Slavic vesel meaning "cheerful".
Veselko Веселко  
Derived from Serbo- vesel meaning "cheerful".
Vikentije Викентије m 
 form of Vincent.
Viktor Виктор m Swedish, Norwegian, , Icelandic, Finnish, Estonian, German, Hungarian, Czech, Slovak, Bulgarian, Russian, , , , Slovene, , Greek
Form of Victor used in various languages.
Višeslav Вишеслав  
 and  form of Veceslav (see Václav).
Vitomir Витомир  , Slovene
Derived from the Slavic elements vitŭ "master, lord" and mirŭ "peace, world".
Vladan Владан  Czech
From the Slavic element volděti meaning "to rule, to control", originally a diminutive of names containing that element.
Vladimir Владимир m Russian, , , Bulgarian, , Slovene, Albanian
From the Old Slavic name *Voldiměrŭ, derived from the elements volděti meaning "to rule" and měrŭ meaning "great, famous". The second element has also been associated with mirŭ meaning "peace, world".... [more]
Vladislav Владислав m Russian, Czech, Slovak, Slovene, Bulgarian, , 
From the Old Slavic name *Voldislavŭ, derived from the elements volděti "to rule" and slava "glory". This name has been borne by kings, princes and dukes of Croatia, Serbia, Bohemia, Poland and Wallachia.
Vlado Владо  , Slovene, Bulgarian, , Slovak
Short form of Vladimir and other names beginning with the Slavic element volděti (South Slavic vladati) meaning "to rule, to control".
Vlasta Власта f & m Czech, Slovak, , , Slovene
Originally a short form of names beginning with the Slavic element volstĭ meaning "power, rule, sovereignty". Descendants of this word include Czech vlast "homeland" and Serbo- vlast "power". It is sometimes masculine in Czech and .
Vlastimir Властимир m 
Derived from the Slavic element volstĭ ( vlast) meaning "power, rule, sovereignty" combined with mirŭ meaning "peace, world". This was the name of a 9th-century prince of Serbia.
Vlatko Влатко  , 
Originally a diminutive of names beginning with the Slavic element volděti (South Slavic vladati) meaning "to rule, to control".
Vojislav Војислав m 
Derived from the Slavic elements vojĭ "warrior, soldier" and slava "glory, fame". Stefan Vojislav was an 11th-century ruler of Serbia.
Vuk Вук m 
Means "wolf" in .
Vukašin Вукашин m 
Derived from  vuk meaning "wolf". This was the name of a 14th-century  ruler.
Žarko Жарко  , 
Derived from South Slavic žar meaning "ember, zeal, fervour".
Zdravko Здравко  , Slovene, Bulgarian, 
Derived from South Slavic zdrav meaning "healthy", ultimately from Old Slavic sŭdorvŭ.
Želimir Желимир  
Derived from Serbo- želeti "to wish, to desire" combined with the Slavic element mirŭ "peace, world".
Željko Жељко  , Slovene
Derived from South Slavic želja meaning "desire", ultimately from Old Slavic želěti.
Živko Живко  , 
Derived from the South Slavic word živ meaning "alive, living".
Zlatan Златан  , Bosnian, , Bulgarian, Slovene
Derived from South Slavic zlato meaning "gold", a derivative of Old Slavic zolto.
Zlatko Златко  , Slovene, Bulgarian, 
Diminutive of Zlatan.
Zoran Зоран  , Slovene, 
Masculine form of Zora.
