A
Adrijana
Aleksa (given name)
Alexandra
Ana (given name)
Anamarija
Anastasija
Anđela
Andrea
Andrijana
Anica
Anka (name)
Antonija
Anya
B
Biljana (name)
Bojana (given name)
Borka (given name)
Branka
Brankica
Bratislava (given name)
D
Danica (given name)
Danijela
Danka
Dijana
Dora (given name)
Draga (given name)
Dragica
Draginja
Dunja
E
Elena (given name)
Evdokija
G
Galina
Gorana
Gordana
I
Irina
Iva (given name)
Ivana
Izolda
J
Jadranka
Jasmina
Jasna (given name)
Jelena
Jovana
Julija
K
Kata (name)
Katarina (given name)
Katerina
Katya
L
Lada (given name)
Leposava
Lidija
Ljiljana
Ljuba (given name)
Ljubica
Ludmila (given name)
M
Magdalena (given name)
Maja (given name)
Maria (given name)
Marija
Marijana
Marina (given name)
Marta (given name)
Melania
Melina (given name)
Mia (given name)
Mila (given name)
Milena (given name)
Milica
Milka (given name)
Mina (given name)
Mira (given name)
Mirjana
Mirna (name)
Monika (given name)
N
Nada (given name)
Nadezhda (given name)
Nadia
Nadica
Nadja (given name)
Nastja
Natasha
Nevena
Nevenka
Nikolina
Nina (name)
O
Olga (name)
Olgica
P
Perica
Petra (given name)
R
Radmila
Ruslana (given name)
Ruža
Ružica (given name)
S
Sanja
Silvija
Slađana
Slavica
Smilja
Snežana
Sofija (given name)
Stanislava
Stefana
Stefania (name)
Suzana
Svjetlana
T
Tamara (given name)
Tanja
Tanya (name)
Tatiana
Teodora
Tijana
V
Valeria (given name)
Vanja
Vera (given name)
Veronica (name)
Vesna (given name)
Vida
Viktorija (given name)
Violeta (given name)
Vladana
Vlatka
Vojislava
Y
Yolonda
Z
Željka
Zlata
Zora (name)
Zorica
Zorka


Adrijana Адријана f Slovene, Serbian, Croatian, Macedonian
Slovene, Serbian, Croatian and Macedonian feminine form of Adrian.
Agata Агата f Italian, Polish, Slovene, Russian, Croatian, Serbian, Swedish
Form of Agatha in various languages.
Agnija Агнија f Serbian, Macedonian, Latvian
Serbian, Macedonian and Latvian form of Agnes.
Aleksandra Александра f Russian, Ukrainian, Polish, Serbian, Bulgarian, Slovene, Croatian, Macedonian, Finnish, Estonian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Georgian
Form of Alexandra in several languages.
Ana Ана f Spanish, Portuguese, Slovene, Bulgarian, Romanian, Croatian, Serbian, Albanian, Macedonian, Georgian, Fijian, Tongan
Form of Anna used in various languages.
Anastasija Анастасија f Latvian, Lithuanian, Macedonian, Serbian
Latvian, Lithuanian, Macedonian and Serbian form of Anastasia.
Anđa Анђа f Croatian, Serbian
Diminutive of Anđela.
Anđela Анђела f Croatian, Serbian
Croatian and Serbian form of Angela.
Anđelka Анђелка f Croatian, Serbian
Croatian and Serbian form of Angela.
Andjela Анђела f Serbian
Alternate transcription of Serbian Анђела (see Anđela).
Andrea 2 Андреа f English, German, Spanish, Czech, Slovak, Hungarian, Romanian, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Icelandic, Dutch, Croatian, Serbian
Feminine form of Andrew. As an English name, it has been used since the 17th century, though it was not common until the 20th century.
Andrijana Андријана f Croatian, Serbian
Feminine form of Andrija.
Angelina Ангелина f Italian, English, Russian, Bulgarian, Serbian, Macedonian, German, Dutch, Swedish, Spanish, Portuguese, Greek, Armenian
Latinate diminutive of Angela. A famous bearer is American actress Angelina Jolie (1975-).
Anica Аница f Slovene, Croatian, Serbian
Slovene, Croatian and Serbian diminutive of Anna.
Anja Ања f Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Finnish, Slovene, Croatian, Serbian, German, Dutch
Form of Anya in several languages.
Anka Анка f Polish, Bulgarian, Croatian, Serbian, Slovene
Diminutive of Anna.
Ankica Анкица f Croatian, Serbian, Slovene
Diminutive of Anka.
Antonija Антонија f Slovene, Croatian, Serbian, Latvian
Slovene, Croatian, Serbian and Latvian form of Antonia.
Atanasija Атанасија f Serbian, Macedonian
Serbian and Macedonian feminine form of Athanasius.
Biljana Биљана f Serbian, Macedonian, Croatian, Slovene
From the South Slavic word биље (bilje) meaning "herb".
Biserka Бисерка f Croatian, Serbian
Croatian and Serbian form of Bisera.
Bogdana Богдана f Bulgarian, Slovene, Romanian, Polish, Serbian
Feminine form of Bogdan.
Bojana Бојана f Slovene, Macedonian, Serbian, Croatian
Feminine form of Bojan.
Borislava Борислава f Bulgarian, Serbian, Russian (Rare)
Feminine form of Borislav.
Božidarka Божидарка f Serbian
Feminine form of Božidar.
Branimira Бранимира f Croatian, Serbian, Bulgarian
Feminine form of Branimir.
Branislava Бранислава f Serbian, Slovak, Slovene
Feminine form of Branislav.
Branka Бранка f Serbian, Croatian, Slovene
Feminine form of Branko.
Brankica Бранкица f Croatian, Serbian
Derived from the Slavic element borna (South Slavic brana) meaning "protection" combined with a diminutive suffix.
Bratislava Братислава f Serbian
Feminine form of Bratislav. This is the name of the capital city of Slovakia, though it is unrelated.
Cveta Цвета f Serbian
Feminine form of Cvetko.
Cvijeta Цвијета f Croatian, Serbian
Feminine form of Cvetko.
Dajana Дајана f Serbian, Croatian, Albanian
Serbian, Croatian and Albanian variant of Diana, reflecting the English pronunciation.
Daliborka Далиборка f Croatian, Serbian, Slovene
Feminine form of Dalibor.
Dalija Далија f Bosnian, Croatian, Serbian, Slovene, Lithuanian
Cognate of Dahlia.
Damjana Дамјана f Slovene, Serbian, Macedonian
Slovene, Serbian and Macedonian feminine form of Damian.
Danica Даница f Serbian, Croatian, Slovene, Slovak, Macedonian, English
From a Slavic word meaning "morning star, Venus". This name occurs in Slavic folklore as a personification of the morning star. It has sometimes been used in the English-speaking world since the 1970s.
Danijela Данијела f Slovene, Croatian, Serbian
Feminine form of Daniel.
Danka Данка f Serbian, Slovak, Polish
Diminutive of Danijela, Daniela or Danuta.
Darija Дарија f Croatian, Serbian, Slovene, Macedonian
Croatian, Serbian, Slovene and Macedonian form of Daria.
Darinka Даринка f Slovene, Serbian, Croatian, Bulgarian
Variant of Darina 2.
Davorka Даворка f Croatian, Serbian
Feminine form of Davor.
Dejana Дејана f Serbian, Croatian, Slovene
Feminine form of Dejan.
Dijana Дијана f Croatian, Serbian, Slovene, Macedonian
Croatian, Serbian, Slovene and Macedonian form of Diana.
Divna Дивна f Serbian, Macedonian
From Serbian диван (divan) or Macedonian дивен (diven) meaning "wonderful".
Djuradja Ђурађа f Serbian (Rare)
Alternate transcription of Serbian Ђурађа (see Đurađa).
Dobrila Добрила f Serbian, Croatian
From the Slavic element dobrŭ (Serbo-Croatian dobar) meaning "good".
Dora Дора f Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, Greek, Croatian, Serbian, Bulgarian, English, German, Dutch
Short form of Dorothy, Theodora or Isidora.
Doroteja Доротеја f Slovene, Croatian, Serbian, Macedonian
Slovene, Croatian, Serbian and Macedonian form of Dorothea.
Draga Драга f Slovene, Croatian, Serbian, Macedonian
Feminine form of Drago.
Dragana Драгана f Serbian, Croatian, Macedonian
Feminine form of Dragan.
Dragica Драгица f Serbian, Croatian, Macedonian, Slovene
Derived from the Slavic element dorgŭ (South Slavic drag) meaning "precious" combined with a diminutive suffix.
Dragoslava Драгослава f Serbian
Feminine form of Dragoslav.
Dubravka Дубравка f Croatian, Serbian
Feminine form of Dubravko.
Dunja Дуња f Serbian, Croatian, Slovene
Means "quince" in the South Slavic languages, a quince being a type of fruit similar to a pear.
Đurađa Ђурађа f Serbian (Rare)
Feminine form of Đurađ.
Dušana Душана f Slovak, Serbian (Rare), Croatian (Rare)
Feminine form of Dušan.
Dušanka Душанка f Serbian, Slovene, Croatian
Feminine form of Dušan.
Dušica Душица f Serbian, Slovene
Feminine diminutive of Dušan.
Edita Едита f Czech, Slovak, Slovene, Croatian, Serbian, Lithuanian
Form of Edith in several languages.
Ela 1 Ела f Slovene, Croatian, Serbian, Polish
Diminutive of names beginning with El such as Elizabeta or Elżbieta.
Emilija Емилија f Lithuanian, Slovene, Serbian, Croatian, Macedonian
Feminine form of Aemilius (see Emily).
Glorija Глорија f Latvian, Slovene, Croatian, Serbian
Latvian, Slovene, Croatian and Serbian form of Gloria.
Goranka Горанка f Croatian, Serbian
Feminine form of Goran.
Gordana Гордана f Serbian, Croatian, Slovene, Macedonian
Feminine form of Gordan.
Hristina Христина f Bulgarian, Macedonian, Serbian
Bulgarian, Macedonian and Serbian form of Christina.
Ilinka Илинка f Macedonian, Serbian, Croatian
Feminine form of Ilija.
Irena Ирена f Polish, Czech, Slovene, Croatian, Serbian, Albanian, Bulgarian, Slovak, Lithuanian
Form of Irene in several languages.
Isidora Исидора f Spanish, Serbian, Portuguese (Rare), Italian (Rare), English (Rare), Ancient Greek
Feminine form of Isidore. This was the name of a 4th-century Egyptian saint and hermitess.
Iva 1 Ива f Bulgarian, Croatian, Serbian
Means "willow tree" in South Slavic.
Ivana Ивана f Czech, Slovak, Serbian, Croatian, Slovene, Bulgarian, Macedonian, Italian
Feminine form of Ivan.
Ivanka Иванка f Bulgarian, Czech, Slovak, Serbian, Croatian, Slovene
Diminutive of Ivana.
Ivona Ивона f Czech, Slovak, Croatian, Serbian, Macedonian
Form of Yvonne in several languages.
Jadranka Јадранка f Croatian, Serbian, Slovene
Croatian, Serbian and Slovene feminine form of Adrian.
Jaga Јага f Croatian, Serbian, Polish
Croatian, Serbian and Polish diminutive of Agatha, Jagoda, Jadwiga and other names containing ja.
Jagoda Јагода f Croatian, Serbian, Macedonian, Polish
Means "strawberry" in South Slavic, and "berry" in Polish. Also in Poland, this can be a diminutive of Jadwiga.
Jana 2 Јана f Croatian, Serbian, Macedonian
Croatian, Serbian and Macedonian variant of Ana.
Janja Јања f Croatian, Serbian, Slovene
Croatian, Serbian and Slovene form of Agnes. It also may be inspired by Serbo-Croatian janje meaning "lamb".
Jasmina Јасмина f Serbian, Croatian, Bosnian, Slovene, Macedonian
Form of Jasmine in several languages.
Jasna Јасна f Croatian, Serbian, Slovene, Macedonian
Derived from South Slavic jasno meaning "clearly, obviously".
Jefimija Јефимија f Serbian
Serbian form of Euphemia. This name was adopted by a 14th-century Serbian poet (born Jelena Mrnjavčević).
Jela Јела f Serbian, Croatian, Slovak
Short form of Jelena or Jelisaveta. It also means "fir tree" in Serbian and Croatian.
Jelena Јелена f Serbian, Croatian, Slovene, Estonian, Lithuanian
Form of Yelena in several languages. In Serbia, Croatia and Slovenia it is also associated with the South Slavic words jelen meaning "deer, stag" and jela meaning "fir tree".
Jelica Јелица f Serbian, Croatian
Diminutive of Jela.
Jelisaveta Јелисавета f Serbian
Serbian form of Elizabeth.
Jelka Јелка f Slovene, Croatian, Serbian
Diminutive of Jelena. It also means "fir tree" in Slovene.
Jordana Јордана f Spanish, Portuguese, Macedonian, Serbian, English (Rare)
Feminine form of Jordan.
Jovana Јована f Serbian, Macedonian
Serbian and Macedonian feminine form of John.
Jovanka Јованка f Serbian, Macedonian
Diminutive of Jovana.
Julijana Јулијана f Slovene, Croatian, Serbian, Macedonian
Slovene, Croatian, Serbian and Macedonian form of Juliana.
Katarina Катарина f Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, German, Croatian, Serbian, Slovene, Sorbian
Form of Katherine in several languages.
Kornelija Корнелија f Croatian, Serbian, Lithuanian
Croatian, Serbian and Lithuanian form of Cornelia.
Kristina Кристина f Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Estonian, Russian, German, Slovene, Czech, Lithuanian, Serbian, Croatian, Albanian, Faroese, English, Bulgarian
Form of Christina in several languages. It is also an English variant of Christina and a Bulgarian variant of Hristina.
Ksenija Ксенија f Serbian, Croatian, Macedonian, Slovene, Latvian
Form of Xenia in several languages.
Lidija Лидија f Latvian, Lithuanian, Slovene, Croatian, Serbian, Macedonian
Form of Lydia in several languages.
Ljerka Љерка f Croatian, Serbian, Slovene
Derived from the rare Serbo-Croatian word lijer meaning "lily" (the usual word is ljiljan).
Ljilja Љиља f Serbian, Croatian
Short form of Ljiljana.
Ljiljana Љиљана f Serbian, Croatian
Derived from Serbo-Croatian ljiljan meaning "lily".
Ljubica Љубица f Serbian, Croatian, Macedonian, Slovene
From the Slavic element ľuby meaning "love" combined with a diminutive suffix. It can also come from the Serbian and Croatian word ljubica meaning "violet (flower)".
Ljubinka Љубинка f Serbian
From the Slavic element ľuby meaning "love" combined with a diminutive suffix.
Magdalena Магдалена f Polish, German, Dutch, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Lithuanian, Spanish, Catalan, Occitan, Slovene, Czech, Bulgarian, Macedonian, Croatian, Serbian, Romanian, English
Latinate form of Magdalene.
Maja 1 Маја f Croatian, Serbian, Slovene, German, Danish, Swedish, Norwegian, Polish, Hungarian
Form of Maia 1 in various languages.
Maja 2 Маја f Croatian, Serbian, Macedonian, Slovene, German, Danish, Swedish, Norwegian, Polish, Czech, Slovak, Hungarian
Diminutive of Maria.
Malina 2 Малина f Bulgarian, Serbian, Polish
Means "raspberry" in several Slavic languages.
Manda Манда f Croatian, Serbian
Diminutive of Magdalena.
Mara 2 Мара f Hungarian, Croatian, Serbian
Hungarian variant of Mária, and a Croatian and Serbian variant of Marija.
Marica Марица f Croatian, Serbian, Slovene, Hungarian, Italian
Diminutive of Marija (Croatian, Serbian and Slovene) or Mária (Hungarian).
Marija Марија f Croatian, Slovene, Serbian, Macedonian, Lithuanian, Latvian, Maltese
Form of Maria in several languages.
Marijana Маријана f Croatian, Serbian, Slovene, Macedonian
Croatian, Serbian, Slovene and Macedonian form of Mariana.
Marina Марина f Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, Catalan, German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Dutch, English, Greek, Finnish, Estonian, Russian, Romanian, Czech, Bulgarian, Croatian, Serbian, Slovene, Macedonian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Georgian, Ancient Roman
Feminine form of Marinus. This name was borne by a few early saints. This is also the name by which Saint Margaret of Antioch is known in the Eastern Orthodox Church.
Marta Марта f Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, Catalan, Polish, Czech, Slovak, German, Dutch, Romanian, Slovene, Bulgarian, Serbian, Croatian, Macedonian, Ukrainian, Belarusian, Russian, Swedish, Icelandic, Latvian, Estonian, Georgian
Form of Martha used in various languages.
Matija Матија m & f Slovene, Croatian, Serbian
Slovene, Croatian and Serbian form of Matthias, used to refer to the apostle chosen to replace Judas Iscariot. It is occasionally used as a feminine name.
Melanija Меланија f Serbian, Macedonian, Slovene, Latvian, Lithuanian
Form of Melanie used in various languages.
Mila Мила f Serbian, Croatian, Bulgarian, Macedonian, Slovene, Ukrainian, Russian
From the Slavic element milŭ meaning "gracious, dear", originally a short form of names containing that element.
Milana Милана f Serbian, Croatian, Russian, Belarusian, Ukrainian
Feminine form of Milan.
Milanka Миланка f Serbian, Croatian
Feminine form of Milan.
Milena Милена f Serbian, Macedonian, Bulgarian, Croatian, Slovene, Czech, Slovak, Polish, Russian, Italian
Feminine form of Milan. It began to be used in Italy in honour of Milena Vukotić (1847-1923), mother of Helen of Montenegro, the wife of the Italian king Victor Emmanuel III. In Italy it can also be considered a combination of Maria and Elena.
Mileva Милева f Serbian, Macedonian
From the Slavic element milŭ meaning "gracious, dear".
Milica Милица f Serbian, Croatian, Slovene, Macedonian
From the Slavic element milŭ meaning "gracious, dear" combined with a diminutive suffix. This name was borne by the wife of the 14th-century Serbian ruler Lazar.
Miljana Миљана f Serbian
Feminine form of Milan.
Milka 1 Милка f Serbian, Croatian, Macedonian, Bulgarian, Slovene
Originally a diminutive of names containing the Slavic element milŭ meaning "gracious, dear".
Mira 2 Мира f Croatian, Serbian, Slovene, Macedonian, Polish
Short form of Miroslava and other names beginning with Mir (often the Slavic element mirŭ meaning "peace, world").
Mirjana Мирјана f Serbian, Croatian, Macedonian, Slovene
Possibly a form of Miriam.
Mirka 1 Мирка f Czech, Slovak, Polish, Serbian
Diminutive of Miroslava and other names containing the Slavic element mirŭ meaning "peace" or "world".
Mirna Мирна f Croatian, Serbian
From Serbo-Croatian miran meaning "peaceful, calm".
Miroslava Мирослава f Czech, Slovak, Russian, Croatian, Serbian, Bulgarian, Macedonian, Slovene
Feminine form of Miroslav.
Mladenka Младенка f Croatian, Serbian
Feminine form of Mladen.
Nada 2 Нада f Serbian, Croatian, Slovene, Macedonian
Means "hope" in South Slavic.
Nadežda Надежда f Slovak, Serbian, Latvian
Slovak, Serbian and Latvian form of Nadezhda.
Nadica Надица f Croatian, Serbian
Diminutive of Nada 2.
Natalija Наталија f Serbian, Croatian, Slovene, Macedonian, Lithuanian
Form of Natalia (see Natalie) in several languages.
Nataša Наташа f Serbian, Croatian, Slovene, Macedonian, Czech, Slovak
Form of Natasha in several languages.
Neda 1 Неда f Croatian, Serbian, Bulgarian
Short form of Nedeljka.
Nedeljka Недељка f Croatian, Serbian
Feminine form of Nedeljko.
Nevena Невена f Bulgarian, Macedonian, Croatian, Serbian
Derived from South Slavic neven meaning "marigold".
Nevenka Невенка f Croatian, Serbian, Slovene
Variant of Nevena.
Nikolina Николина f Bulgarian, Croatian, Serbian, Macedonian, Slovene
Bulgarian, Croatian, Serbian, Macedonian and Slovene feminine form of Nicholas.
Nina 1 Нина f Russian, Italian, English, German, French, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Finnish, Lithuanian, Dutch, Polish, Slovene, Czech, Slovak, Croatian, Serbian, Bulgarian, Ukrainian, Belarusian
Short form of names that end in nina, such as Antonina or Giannina. It was imported to Western Europe from Russia and Italy in the 19th century. This name also nearly coincides with the Spanish word niña meaning "little girl" (the word is pronounced differently than the name).... [more]
Ninoslava Нинослава f Serbian
Feminine form of Ninoslav.
Olga Олга f Russian, Ukrainian, Polish, German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Icelandic, Finnish, Estonian, Latvian, Hungarian, Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, Romanian, Czech, Slovene, Serbian, Bulgarian, Greek
Russian form of the Old Norse name Helga. The 10th-century Saint Olga was the wife of Igor I, the ruler of Kievan Rus (a state based around the city of Kyiv). Like her husband she was probably a Varangian, who were Norse people who settled in Eastern Europe beginning in the 9th century. Following Igor's death she ruled as regent for her son Svyatoslav for 18 years. After she was baptized in Constantinople she attempted to convert her subjects to Christianity, though this goal was only achieved by her grandson Vladimir.
Olgica Олгица f Macedonian, Serbian
Macedonian and Serbian diminutive of Olga.
Olivera Оливера f Serbian, Croatian, Macedonian
Feminine form of Oliver.
Olja Оља f Serbian
Serbian diminutive of Olga.
Rada Рада f Serbian, Bulgarian
Derived from the Slavic element radŭ meaning "happy, willing", originally a short form of names beginning with that element.
Radinka Радинка f Serbian
Derived from the Slavic element radŭ meaning "happy, willing" combined with a diminutive suffix.
Radmila Радмила f Serbian, Croatian, Czech
Serbian, Croatian and Czech feminine form of Radomil.
Radojka Радојка f Serbian, Croatian
Derived from the Slavic element radŭ meaning "happy, willing".
Radomira Радомира f Serbian
Feminine form of Radomir.
Radoslava Радослава f Bulgarian, Czech, Serbian
Feminine form of Radoslav.
Rahela Рахела f Romanian, Croatian, Serbian
Romanian, Croatian and Serbian form of Rachel.
Rajka Рајка f Croatian, Serbian
Feminine form of Rajko.
Rosa 2 Роса f Bulgarian, Serbian, Croatian, Macedonian
Means "dew" in the South Slavic languages.
Ruža Ружа f Croatian, Serbian, Macedonian
Means "rose" in Croatian, Serbian and Macedonian, a cognate of Rosa 1. In Macedonian, ружа is an alternate form of the word роза (roza).
Ružica Ружица f Croatian, Serbian
Diminutive of Ruža.
Sandra Сандра f Italian, English, French, Spanish, Portuguese, German, Dutch, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Icelandic, Latvian, Lithuanian, Polish, Slovene, Croatian, Serbian, Macedonian, Czech, Romanian
Short form of Alessandra. It was introduced to the English-speaking world (where it is usually used independently of Alexandra) by author George Meredith, who used it for the heroine in his novel Emilia in England (1864) and the reissued version Sandra Belloni (1887). A famous bearer is the American actress Sandra Bullock (1964-).
Sanja Сања f Croatian, Serbian, Slovene
Derived from South Slavic sanjati meaning "to dream". Alternatively, it could be from the Russian name Sanya 2.
Sara Сара f Hebrew, Greek, Spanish, Italian, Portuguese, French, Catalan, Galician, Romanian, German, Dutch, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Icelandic, Finnish, Slovene, Croatian, Serbian, Bosnian, Albanian, Macedonian, Polish, English, Arabic, Persian, Amharic, Tigrinya, Biblical Hebrew, Biblical Latin
Form of Sarah used in various languages.
Saša Саша m & f Croatian, Serbian, Slovene
Croatian, Serbian and Slovene diminutive of Aleksander or Aleksandra.
Senka Сенка f Serbian, Croatian
Means "shadow, shade" in Serbian and Croatian. It can also be a diminutive of Ksenija.
Silvija Силвија f Latvian, Lithuanian, Croatian, Serbian, Slovene, Macedonian
Form of Silvia in several languages.
Slađana Слађана f Serbian, Croatian
Derived from Serbian and Croatian sladak meaning "sweet".
Sladjana Слађана f Serbian
Alternate transcription of Serbian Слађана (see Slađana).
Slavica Славица f Serbian, Croatian, Slovene, Macedonian
From the Slavic element slava meaning "glory" combined with a diminutive suffix. It was originally a diminutive of names containing that element.
Slavka Славка f Slovene, Serbian, Croatian, Bulgarian, Macedonian
Feminine form of Slavko.
Slobodanka Слободанка f Serbian, Croatian
Feminine form of Slobodan.
Smiljana Смиљана f Croatian, Serbian
From the Serbo-Croatian word smilje, a type of plant, known as everlasting or immortelle in English (genus Helichrysum).
Snežana Снежана f Serbian, Macedonian, Slovene
Serbian, Macedonian and Slovene form of Snježana.
Snježana Сњежана f Croatian, Serbian
Derived from the Serbo-Croatian word snežan meaning "snowy".
Sofija Софија f Serbian, Croatian, Slovene, Macedonian, Latvian, Lithuanian
Form of Sophia in several languages.
Sonja Соња f German, Dutch, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Icelandic, Finnish, Slovene, Serbian, Croatian, Macedonian
Form of Sonya in various languages.
Stana Стана f Serbian, Croatian
Short form of Stanislava.
Stanislava Станислава f Czech, Slovak, Bulgarian, Serbian, Croatian, Slovene, Russian, Ukrainian
Feminine form of Stanislav.
Staša Сташа f Serbian, Slovene, Croatian
Diminutive of Anastasija or Anastazija.
Stefana Стефана f Bulgarian, Serbian
Feminine form of Stefan.
Sunčica Сунчица f Croatian, Serbian
Derived from Serbo-Croatian sunce meaning "sun".
Suzana Сузана f Croatian, Serbian, Slovene, Macedonian, Albanian, Portuguese (Brazilian)
Form of Susan in several languages.
Svetlana Светлана f Russian, Slovak, Bulgarian, Serbian, Macedonian, Estonian, Latvian, Lithuanian, Armenian, Georgian
Derived from Russian свет (svet) meaning "light, world". It was popularized by the poem Svetlana (1813) by the poet Vasily Zhukovsky. It is sometimes used as a translation of Photine.
Svjetlana Свјетлана f Croatian, Serbian
Croatian and Serbian form of Svetlana.
Tajana Тајана f Croatian, Serbian
Derived from Croatian and Serbian tajiti "to keep secret".
Tamara Тамара f Russian, Ukrainian, Belarusian, Czech, Slovak, Polish, Slovene, Croatian, Serbian, Macedonian, Hungarian, English, Dutch, Spanish, Italian, Lithuanian, Georgian
Russian form of Tamar. Russian performers such as Tamara Karsavina (1885-1978), Tamara Drasin (1905-1943), Tamara Geva (1907-1997) and Tamara Toumanova (1919-1996) introduced it to the English-speaking world. It rapidly grew in popularity in the United States starting in 1957. Another famous bearer was the Polish cubist painter Tamara de Lempicka (1898-1980).
Tanja Тања f German, Dutch, Finnish, Serbian, Croatian, Slovene, Macedonian, Danish, Swedish, Norwegian
Variant of Tanya.
Tatjana Татјана f Serbian, Croatian, Slovene, Macedonian, German, Latvian, Lithuanian, Finnish, Estonian
Form of Tatiana in several languages, in some cases via Russian Татьяна (Tatyana).
Teodora Теодора f Italian, Spanish, Portuguese, Romanian, Polish, Bulgarian, Macedonian, Serbian, Swedish
Feminine form of Theodoros (see Theodore).
Teodosija Теодосија f Serbian, Macedonian
Serbian and Macedonian form of Theodosia.
Tereza Тереза f Czech, Slovak, Bulgarian, Croatian, Serbian, Portuguese (Brazilian), Romanian
Form of Theresa in various languages.
Tihana Тихана f Croatian, Serbian
Derived from the Slavic element tixŭ (Serbo-Croatian tih) meaning "quiet".
Tijana Тијана f Serbian, Croatian, Slovene
Variant of Tihana.
Tomislava Томислава f Croatian, Serbian
Feminine form of Tomislav.
Valerija Валерија f Serbian, Croatian, Slovene, Lithuanian
Form of Valeria in several languages.
Vanja Вања m & f Croatian, Serbian, Slovene, Swedish, Norwegian
Croatian, Serbian and Slovene (masculine and feminine) form of Vanya. It is also used in Scandinavia, where it is primarily feminine.
Vasilija Василија f Serbian, Macedonian
Serbian and Macedonian feminine form of Basil 1.
Veca Веца f Serbian
Diminutive of Vesna.
Vedrana Ведрана f Croatian, Serbian
Feminine form of Vedran.
Vera 1 Вера f Russian, English, German, Swedish, Norwegian, Danish, Dutch, Portuguese, Italian, Spanish, Hungarian, Slovene, Serbian, Croatian, Bulgarian, Macedonian, Belarusian, Georgian
Means "faith" in Russian, though it is sometimes associated with the Latin word verus "true". It has been in general use in the English-speaking world since the late 19th century.
Verica Верица f Serbian, Croatian
Serbian and Croatian diminutive of Vera 1.
Vesna Весна f Croatian, Serbian, Slovene, Macedonian, Slavic Mythology
Means "spring" in many Slavic languages. This was the name of a Slavic spirit associated with the springtime. It has been used as a given name only since the 20th century.
Viktorija Викторија f Lithuanian, Latvian, Macedonian, Slovene, Croatian, Serbian
Form of Victoria in several languages.
Violeta Виолета f Romanian, Spanish, Bulgarian, Macedonian, Serbian, Albanian, Lithuanian
Form of Violet in several languages.
Višnja Вишња f Croatian, Serbian
Means "sour cherry" in Croatian and Serbian.
Vjera Вјера f Croatian, Serbian
Croatian and Serbian cognate of Vera 1.
Vladana Владана f Serbian, Czech
Feminine form of Vladan.
Vlasta Власта f & m Czech, Slovak, Croatian, Serbian, Slovene
Originally a short form of names beginning with the Slavic element volstĭ meaning "power, rule, sovereignty". Descendants of this word include Czech vlast "homeland" and Serbo-Croatian vlast "power". It is sometimes masculine in Czech and Serbian.
Vojislava Војислава f Serbian
Feminine form of Vojislav.
Žaklina Жаклина f Macedonian, Croatian, Serbian
Macedonian, Croatian and Serbian form of Jacqueline.
Zdravka Здравка f Croatian, Serbian, Slovene, Bulgarian
Feminine form of Zdravko.
Željka Жељка f Croatian, Serbian, Slovene
Feminine form of Željko.
Živa Жива f Slavic Mythology, Slovene, Serbian
From the Old Slavic word živŭ meaning "alive, living". According to the 12th-century Saxon priest Helmold, this was the name of a Slavic goddess possibly associated with life or fertility.
Živka Живка f Croatian, Serbian, Macedonian
Feminine form of Živko.
Zlata Злата f Croatian, Serbian, Slovene, Macedonian, Bulgarian, Czech, Slovak, Russian, Ukrainian
Feminine form of Zlatan.
Zoja Зоја f Latvian, Lithuanian, Polish, Slovene, Serbian, Croatian, Macedonian
Form of Zoe in several languages.
Zora Зора f Croatian, Serbian, Bulgarian, Macedonian, Slovene, Czech, Slovak
Means "dawn, aurora" in the South Slavic languages, as well as Czech and Slovak.
Zorana Зорана f Croatian, Serbian
Variant of Zora.
Zorica Зорица f Serbian, Croatian, Macedonian
Serbian, Croatian and Macedonian diminutive of Zora.
Zorka Зорка f Czech, Slovak, Croatian, Serbian, Slovene, Bulgarian, Macedonian
Diminutive of Zora.
Zvezdana Звездана f Serbian, Slovene
Serbian and Slovene form of Zvjezdana.